In this lesson, I'll give you a brief overview of a test method that I have created to test this query
method find by user ID.
All right, so let's go to a test class and have a look at it.
Now, I have updated my test class with new changes and you can download this new class from a resources
section that is attached to this video lesson.
All right.
So one of the changes that I have made to my test class is that I have introduced a new method that
is called before each.
This is a lifecycle method that is annotated with before each annotation, and it is a setup method
to create and persist into a database table to users.
Now let's scroll down back to my new test method, this one.
Because I have moved to code that creates a new user to a set up method.
The range section of my new test method is empty.
In the ACT section, I use user repository object and I invoke my method and the test which is found
by user ID and as a parameter I give it user ID of a second user that I have persisted into a database
table.
And if the query method that I have created works well, and if there is a user with this user ID found
in the database table, then in response back, I should get a user entity object containing details
of my second user and in the assert section I first make sure that stored user object is not now and
then I make sure that the received user entity object contains expected user ID.
All right, so now let's run all test methods in my test class and see if they work.
I'll scroll up and I will run both of my test methods.
And I have both of my test methods passing.
Now let's make the new test method fail.
Let's assume that we have used a different user ID to find the user.
I will provide an invalid user ID something like this and I will run it.
And it fails because user with provided user ID was not found.
The very first assertion triggered.
Now let's provide user ID of a first user.
User ID one and let's run it again.
It should fail again, but with a different error message.
Now it fails because user ID two and user ID one does not match and we get a display message returned.
User ID does not match expected value.
All right, so it all works.
Let's make it pass again.
And it passes.
All right.
So it looks like everything is working well for us.
And you now know how to test GP query methods for your GP a repository.